### Description of files contained within this folder
This folder contains a minimal dataset for the nature paper and the analysis performend to calculate the number of nuclei per hyphal length unit.
In this minimal dataset only two field of view image stacks per replicate are included. However, all training data for the trained stardist model is included. 
The complete dataset is avalaible upon request. 

#### Explanation of the A5 folder
tree structure of A5
A5 -----
       |----- 240321
       |        |------ Cell_Masks
       |        |------ Skeleton
       |        |------ StardistOutput
       |        |------ StartdistOutput_Corrected
       |        |------ Raw image data tifs of this replicate
       |
       |----- 240325
       |        |------ Cell_Masks
       |        |------ Skeleton
       |        |------ StardistOutput
       |        |------ StartdistOutput_Corrected
       |        |------ Raw image data tifs of this replicate
       |        
       |----- training
                 | 
               240306
                 |------ Cell_Masks
                 |------ Masks
                 |------ Skeleton
                 |------ Raw image data tifs of this replicate

The A5 folder contains the raw image data, and the created cell and nuclear masks used for calculating the number of nuclei per unit of hyphal length. 
The direct subfolder contains 3 subfolders. Each folder represent one of the replicates used in this experiment, and the date is indicative of when the fixation, DAPI staining and imaging of the replicate was performed. 

The training folder contains the image data in which the nuclei were manually annotated, which was subsequently used in training a stardist model to segment nuclei in other replicates.
Thus in the training folder three folders can be found : 
    1. Cell_Masks  = containing the manually in napari-annotated masks of the hyphal area in each image,
    2. Masks = containing the manually in napari-anotated nuclear masks,
    3. Skeleton = containing the skeletonized cell masks.   
Besides these folders, the raw image data used in generating these segmentation masks can be found in this folder. 

The other two subfolders of A5 contain 4 different subfolders, being :
    1. Cell_Masks =  containing the manually in napari-annotated masks of the hyphal area in each image
    2. StardistOutput = containing the predicted nuclear masks by stardist
    3. StartdistOutput_Corrected = containing the manually correction of stardist predicted masks. Stardist especially tended predict rare elongated nucleus as multiple seperate nuclei. These were manually corrected.   
    4. Skeleton = containing the skeletonized cell masks.

#### The Figure14_elements folder
Contains the following files that we used in creating the Figure for the paper: 
    1. Panel_A-D_Figure_illustrative_DAPI_signal_and_Segmentation_SB_20um.png
    2. PanelE_df_nuclear_density.csv
    3. PanelF_MAX_4_horizontal_100um.png
    4. PanelG_MAX_4_horizontal_100um-hyphae zoom in.png

#### Figures folder
Contains the following figures that are generated by the notebook "Calculate_Nuclear_Density.ipynb": 
    1. histogram_nuclei_per_length.png
    2. violin_nuclei_per_area.png
    3. violin_nuclei_per_length.png

#### Images for Figures (SB 20 um) folder
Contains miscroscopy images and Adobe ilustrator file that was used to create the overview image.

#### Notebooks folder
Contains the following jupyter notebooks: 
    1. Calculate_Nuclear_Density.ipynb =  Used for calculating the number of nuclei per hyphal unit  density. 
    2. Mask_correction.ipynb = Used for loading masks in napari for manual correction.

#### Notebooks_StarDist folder
Contains the following jupyter notebooks used in training a stardist model and doing precictions: 
    1.  0_Creating_crops_for_training.ipynb = crops images and manually annotated nuclear masks to a size small enough for training.
    2.  1_training - AMF.ipynb = performs training on cropped images and masks resulting in a trained stardist model.
    3.  2_prediction-AMF.ipynb = performs model prediction on new images. 

Additionally, it contains the following folders :
    1. images = contains raw image data and their corresponding model crops used for model training.  
    2. masks = contains manually annotated nuclear masks and their crops used for model training 
    3. models = contains the stardist model used for prediction of the other two replicates.

#### videos folder 
contains videos that are recorded in the supplementary of the paper. Videos were created using the napari plugin napari-animation (https://www.napari-hub.org/plugins/napari-animation) and show a 3D rendering of the fluorescently labelled nuclei and their segmentation (indicated by the coloured masks).

#### library dependencies 
    (1) scikit-image
    (2) pandas
    (3) numpy
    (4) seaborn
    (5) matplotlib
    (6) magicgui
    (7) tqdm 
    (8) tifffile
    (9) cbsdeep
    (10) stardist
















